## Category: Computers & Beyond

## Title: Introduction to Computer Programming for Seniors

## Instructor: Tom Browder

## Sessions: Three two-hour classes

Would you like to become familiar with computer programming to see what
your children or grandchildren may be learning in school? Want to
learn some computer skills used by the engineers of the Internet?

This short course will introduce you to computer programming (also
popularly, but a bit inaccurately, referred to as "coding") using the
GNU/Linux operating system (OS), the OS used on most supercomputers
and "cloud" services.  Using your laptop (or one of the college's
Windows PCs) you will boot into a Debian 9 GNU/Linux system and learn
the rudiments of command-line execution of various utility programs
and special purpose tools like 'ls', 'grep', 'file', etc. Using a text
editor, such as 'gedit' or 'vi', you will learn how to write the
classic "Hello, World!" program in several programming languages
including C, Python, Ruby, Bash, PostScript, and Perl 6. Then you will
continue to use the Perl 6 language and learn how to write programs
that manipulate files and data in various ways. Finally, you will be
introduced to local resources to help you if you want to continue to
pursue your newly-found interests.  No programming experience is
required, but bringing a laptop to class is recommended (the newer the
better).

Note you may not recognize some of the terms used above, but they will
become second nature to you before the course is over.

The primary reference for this course is the book "Learning to Program
with Perl 6: First Steps" by Dr. Juan J.  Merelo (available from
on-line booksellers in eBook and paperback formats).  Other resources
include the Perl 6 website at <https://perl6.org> which has the
official documentation of the Perl 6 programming language.
